---
layout: post
title: KZ ZST 6 months after
subtitle: The right way to make earphones
tags: [review, audio]
comments: true
---


I always preferred to withhold the final judgement only after using it extensively to understand the nooks and crannies of the product. For something as simple as a pair of earphones, there are a surprising number of design choices that has made the KZ ZST from good to great to outstanding.

 I will cover the three most important factors which I believe an average consumer should actually give a damn about, in order of importance:
#### 1. [Comfort](#comfort)
#### 2. [Sound](#sound)
#### 3. [Value](#value)

---


### Comfort
First matter of concern is if one would even comfortably wear this pair of earphones. To truly enjoy your music or media, The last thing on your mind should be your earphones tethering on the edge of your ear balls threatening to fall off. It all goes south from this point on. Just as irresistible as pulling at army berets, readjusting your earphones inevitably drowns out your media with the deafening rubbing sounds of the earphones against your ear canal. Wait did Abe Weissman just threaten to stick what into who? Now you have to seek back 10 seconds to repeat the last 2 seconds while having to re-watch the first 8 seconds. Alas, the delivery just did not seem as funny as if you first saw it. Comfort is key to a great earphone. While comfort tends to be subjective to the myriad of ears out in the wild, the KZ ZST has provisions which improves the overall comfort of the product.

What keeps earphones in your ears and out of dropping out is a good fit. I've always felt that having a (insert joke) fit worthy of r/Perfectfit is more than just ear tip sizes. Personally, the sponge grip by my ear canals could never support the weight of the cables with the standard stick-into-ear-cable-pointing-down design. My ears similarly needed extra support to avoid uncomfortable sagging, in the form of wing tips or looping the cables over the back of the ear. Difficult to explain, but the ear isn't perfectly round and relying on just soft cable to loop around the ear can still lead to a lot of flopping around. The KZ ZST completely subverts all these problems. The silicon ear tips are lined with ridges which makes it already extra grippy. They bring fit to the next level with a heat shrinking plastic coating around the cable is moulded to loop beautifully around the shape of your typical asian ear. This solution is elegant as it remains light weight contrasted to the chunkiness wing tips often create. The 45 degree rubber resin further angles the drivers right into the epicenter of your ear canal. All this allows the ear to comfortably support the weight of the hanging cable while keeping the drivers in place by isolating the drivers from external forces.

The unassuming the plastic housing of the KZ ZST might seem funky and even too large for an average ear. However it packs a punch in the comfort department, every curve and angle seemingly allowing for worry free prolonged use. Immediately, one would notice is it really fills up your entire ear. The plastic housing creates additional sound isolation beyond just the silicon ear tips sealing the ear canals. There are no uncomfortable edges jutting into the ear as the curves conform to a typical ear shape. There have been earphones like the Sennheiser momentum where causing me nasty ear abrasions and even ear pimples. The soft bones of the outer ear comfortably cradles the drivers in its loving embrace, and the KZ ZST do love to stay in place.  Visually, its low profile does not leave you looking like a dork, and one can don helmets or take a good lie down on your sides without having to commit ear suppuku.

I've noticed that some cables tend to become wave-y and curvy after prolonged use, maybe due to oil, heat and the frequent coiling. However the KZ ZST braided cables have remained relatively straight after 6 months of intense use and abuse. Coupled with the fact that the cables run down from the back of your ears, there is no chance for the cables to be playing punk dancing across your face like overly excited kids in a McDonalds playground enclosure.

---

### Sound
You can read more about the subtleties of the sound profile of the KZ ZST from other audio reviews as I don't think that is significant to an average person using it during their morning commute. Simply put, it sounds great, and its bass is certainly more pronounced. Most importantly, it is comfortable to use as there are no shrill frequencies terrorising your ear drums. It gets loud really easily and the volume step can be quite abrupt from being too soft to too loud but that would depend on the media player/smartphone. Due to its low impedance, at the lowest possible volume and at very quite places, the static interference picked up from an average media player could be very annoying to sensitive ears. Again, this is down to individual media players.

The braided cable supplemented by the amazing fit minimises any cable knocking noise getting in the way of sound comfort. Try tapping your earphone cables; that deafening, dull sound is what I mean by cable knocking noise. Especially when listening to music while commuting, jostling around the crowded MRT cabin and the constant battle to balance on your two feet causes a lot of cable knocking. Heck, in a quiet room, even breathing and allowing the cables to rub across your clothes create a significant noise. The knocking noise can be incredibly frustrating if one pays attention to it but subconsciously people ignore it. Minimising this noise thus subconsciously makes the KZ ZST easier to use of long periods of time without feeling fatigued.

---

### Value
At just SGD25, the KZ ZST has an extremely low barrier to entry which also makes this a worry free daily driver. In fact, my original intent of buying the KZ ZST was to keep my precious Tin T2 earphones at home while I daily drive something cheaper such that I didn't have to worry about damaging or losing them while I toss them in my bags. What makes it a **value** purchase, beyond just the absolute cost, is its usable lifetime. Durability is often forgotten when making value purchases, especially in the arena of earphones. Having to replace a $20 earphones every 3 months would cost you way more than a $100 earphone that lasts years, on top of the hassle of having to deal with broken earphones to begin with.

With the KZ ZST, it knocks it out of the park in the durability arena. The driver housing is made of 2 pieces of plastic held together by pin clips. While it is plastic, it readily survives from being stepped and sat on, and I have had no issues with its rigidity. The main points of failure for most earphones comes from the cable connections and the KZ ZST has it covered. At the 3.5mm jack features a chunky plastic-rubber resin, transiting to the braided cables at a 90 degree over bendy ridge design. The merits are manifold.

The rubber resin actually provides something to comfortably grip on to remove your earphones out of even the tightest 3.5mm jacks. Something to watch out for is when plugged into your smartphone, it will be resting on the resin due to its size, thus potentially injuring your headphone jack. However, no one should be pressing down on your smartphone in the first place so this should not be a big issue.

Angling the cable at 90 degrees minimises those accidental painful tugs at the connection between the cable and the jack itself. The bendy ridge greatly absorbs any force away from the cable connections itself, contrasting to inferior designs which terminate abruptly without the transition region, thus merely transferring the point of failure from the jack to the angled connector. This has been well implemented throughout the KZ ZST, from the Y splitting connector up to the connection to the drivers.

Next we have the star of the show, the copper braided cables. These cables do tend to tangle up in your pockets, but untangling them is a relative breeze due to its smooth coating. The degree of braiding is intricate enough that the cables act just like strings even in the nastiest of knots. Bending them 90 degrees won't leave nasty permanent kinks in the cable, since it is braided. Braided cables are generally stronger and resistant to wear and tear, like rips in the coating. Even when the cables fail, these 2 pin mmcx cables are easily replaceable for a fraction of the cost of a new set of earphones. That also means one can customise their cables to their hearts content, be it a higher core count, colour, weight, whatsoever.

Towards the drivers the KZ ZST sees its cables wrapped in flexible heat shrink plastic tubes while still retaining sufficient rigidity. Whenever your earphone cables get caught while on the move, the force from the violent jerk is greatly distributed across the back of your ear, directing it away from the mmcx pin connections. To top it off, the mmcx pin connection is ruggedised with the same rubber resin. The rubber resin actually reaches into the driver housing itself, such that any lateral force is applied on the resin instead of the pins itself. All these combine to minimise oxidation that can occur at the electrical connection points. The cable closest to the ear is particularly susceptible to corrosion due to sweat and accumulated oil, especially here in sunny Singapore. There is no IP water or dust rating and there are acoustic holes that lead directly from the housing to the drivers themselves so don't just go running in the rain with these.

---

### Conclusion
In line with the conventional wisdom "The best camera is the one you have with you", having the ability to quickly pop in a great sounding earphone at any time I found myself with free time is pivotal to a lifestyle of heavy earphone usage.  Having used the KZ ZST for 6 months, I can safely conclude that it has been the best earphones I have used.

If you are in the market for a decent pair of earphones, heck even if you aren't, just save on a couple of Starbucks coffee and get yourself the upgrade of a lifetime.
